President Biden's national
security adviser is in Tel Aviv
right now
for discussions, meeting
with Israel's Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu,
its defense minister as well.
Other members of the war cabinet.
The White House
said a major directive for Jake
Sullivan is to pressure Israeli leaders
to be more surgical
and precise in their pursuit of Hamas
in order to reduce harm to civilians.
But CNN is learning
that thousands of the air to ground
military weapons
used in Gaza
since the Hamas terror attack
have been unguided.
CNN national security reporter
Natasha Bertrand is here
with the details.
This is illuminating reporting,
especially in the wake of President
Biden saying that Israel is engaged
in indiscriminate bombing.
What more are your U.S.
intelligence sources
telling you about this? Natasha?
Yeah, Pamela,
what we learned is that the U.S.
intelligence community assesses
that of the roughly 29,000
air to ground munitions
that Israel has dropped
on Gaza over the last two plus months.
About 40 to 45% of those munitions
have been unguided
and also known as dumb bombs.
Now, that stands in contrast,
of course, to precision guided munitions,
which are sometimes laser
guided, GPS guided,
typically are more accurate
and precise than on guided munitions,
which experts told us really pose
an elevated risk
to civilians and can be less precise.
And when you're talking
about such a densely
populated area like Gaza is,
you know, the difference
between a target
reaching a munition, reaching its target
within a few feet
can mean
a matter of life and death
in such a densely populated area.
And so the question is now,
why is Israel using these dumb bombs?
And we
really don't have a great explanation
at this point.
US.
The US has provided
Israel with the kinds of bomb kits
that they can use
to transform their munitions
that they have in their stockpile
into smart munitions,
smart bombs that are,
you know,
GPS or laser
guided or other forms
of precision guided munitions.
But the Israelis are still choosing
to use in a very large
proportion of the time
these unguided munitions.
And that really,
according to the experts
that we spoke
to, undercuts
the repeated Israeli argument
that they are doing everything
that they possibly can to minimize
civilian casualties.
Now, we did get a statement
after we published this story
from an IDF spokesperson
who said that
the type of munitions used in each
strike is determined
according to the characteristics
of the target.
And they said that they do take steps
to mitigate the harm to civilians.
But really,
the the sheer scale
of the use of these dumb bombs
has raised a lot of questions
among experts
about why Israel is using them,
whether it's necessary.
And, of course, if it's true, then why
they're saying that
they're taking all of these steps to
to mitigate harm to civilians
when these actually can pose
a greater threat to them in the long run.
Yeah.
And we should note, it's
not just Israeli officials
saying they're doing everything they can
to limit civilian
casualties, the US, too.
John Kirby,
a spokesperson for the National Security
Council, just said Wednesday
that Israel is doing
everything they can
to reduce civilian casualties.
And yet this reporting is coming out
really raising a lot of questions
about that.
Natasha Bertrand, thank you so much.
In a short time ago.
The White House
revealed more of what happened
during Jake Sullivan's
trip to Tel Aviv today.
Yeah.
National Security Council official
John Kirby
said that Sullivan
talked to Israeli leaders
about transitioning
from, quote,
high intensity operations
to lower intensity operations.
In the near future.
Let's take you now to Israel
with CNN correspondent
Jeremy Diamond,
who's live for us in Sderot.
Jeremy, what are you learning about
the meetings
between the national security adviser
and Israeli officials?
Well, these meetings
really come at a critical point
in Israel's
war effort against Hamas in Gaza.
It comes as not only
the civilian death toll is mounting,
but also as growing
international
pressure is also mounting on Israel
and being acknowledged
by the United States,
including by President Biden
just days ago,
talking about Israel's indiscriminate
bombing of Gaza.
And so enter
the picture,
Jake Sullivan
meeting with top Israeli officials,
including the Israeli prime minister,
to discuss
not only that mounting civilian death
toll, the ways
in which
the United States wants Israel
to be more targeted in its operations,
but also beginning to think
about a timetable
for transitioning
the high intensity
fighting and bombing of Gaza
that we are seeing from Israeli forces
right now to a lower intensity phase.
That's according to John Kirby,
the National Security Council spokesman
There is an acknowledgment
from the Israelis
that that is part of the discussion here.
But for now, the Israelis seem
committed to maintaining
this current
tempo of the war effort for weeks
if not months to come.
You have gallons.
The defense minister,
we're told,
told Jake Sullivan that this war
could last more than several months.
And the Israeli prime
minister for his part,
he said that the fighting will continue
until the complete destruction
of Hamas, until victory.
And so there is a question here about
whether the message
from American officials
is being received by the Israelis.
We know that another key question
that's being discussed
is also the fate of Gaza
after Hamas is destroyed.
If indeed that goal is achieved
But also at the moment
right now, the fate of those hostages,
including at least
eight Americans who are believed
to be held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip.
John Kirby also addressed that point.
Moments ago
we're still working by the hour
to try to get a pause back in place
so that hostages can get released.
I'll let the Israelis
speak to their negotiators
and where where they are
and what they're going to focus on.
I can tell you one of the things
Jake's doing in the region,
I mean, if you need proof
that we still want to see a pause,
just look at where
the national security adviser is today.
And we know
that there is an active effort by U.S.
officials to try and restart
those negotiations
between Israel and Hamas.
Mediated by the Kothari government.
For now,
those talks have really broken down
since that week
long truce
between Israel and Hamas ended.
And now there is an effort
by the United States
to discuss ideas with Israel,
to bring those to the Qataris,
to have them bring those ideas to Hamas.
But for now, it appears
that those negotiations
are really going nowhere.
The Israeli prime
minister, though, after his meeting
with Jake Sullivan,
he did say that a main goal of this war
effort is to secure the
return and the release of those hostages.
So we will see if there's any traction
after Jake Sullivan's visit
to the region.
Yeah, definitely
a thread to keep an eye on there.
Jeremy Diamond, thank you so much.